LLMs are trained on enormous bodies of data but they aren’t trained on your data. Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) solves this problem by adding your data to the data LLMs already have access to. You will see references to RAG frequently in this documentation.
In RAG, your data is loaded and prepared for queries or “indexed”. User queries act on the index, which filters your data down to the most relevant context. This context and your query then go to the LLM along with a prompt, and the LLM provides a response.
Indexing: this means creating a data structure that allows for querying the data. For LLMs this nearly always means creating vector embeddings, numerical representations of the meaning of your data, as well as numerous other metadata strategies to make it easy to accurately find contextually relevant data.
Nodes and Documents: A Document is a container around any data source - for instance, a PDF, an API output, or retrieve data from a database. A Node is the atomic unit of data in LlamaIndex and represents a “chunk” of a source Document. Nodes have metadata that relate them to the document they are in and to other nodes.
Once you’ve ingested your data, LlamaIndex will help you index the data into a structure that’s easy to retrieve. This usually involves generating vector embeddings which are stored in a specialized database called a vector store. Indexes can also store a variety of metadata about your data.
Embeddings LLMs generate numerical representations of data called embeddings. When filtering your data for relevance, LlamaIndex will convert queries into embeddings, and your vector store will find data that is numerically similar to the embedding of your query.
A router determines which retriever will be used to retrieve relevant context from the knowledge base. More specifically, the RouterRetriever class, is responsible for selecting one or multiple candidate retrievers to execute a query. They use a selector to choose the best option based on each candidate’s metadata and the query.
An agent is an automated decision-maker powered by an LLM that interacts with the world via a set of tools. Agents can take an arbitrary number of steps to complete a given task, dynamically deciding on the best course of action rather than following pre-determined steps. This gives it additional flexibility to tackle more complex tasks.